Introduction
============

Analysis Cockpit is the central platform for analyzing THOR events and
SIGMA matches generated by ASGARDs real time agents.

It can be used in an environment where scans results can be
automatically collected from ASGARD Management Centers or
environments in which THOR is executed by scripts or any other
3\ :sup:`rd` party solution.

It is available as a virtual appliance on VMWare and also as a dedicated
hardware appliance.

While THOR can also be seen or used as hunting solution THOR is
optimized to avoid false negatives – meaning optimized to not miss an
indicator of compromise. On the other side this clearly leads to more
anomalies and false positives being reported.

In a scenario where you scan your infrastructure frequently you would
either be seeing the same anomalies again and again or you would need to
create many rules to filter out these anomalies in order to save
analysis time.

Analysis Cockpit is designed to facilitate this process and help you
generate these rules automatically, so that you can set your
baseline-filters after the first scan. After setting the first baseline
it is now easy to focus on relevant Alerts and Warnings as only
differences between the first and second scans are shown.

Analysis Cockpit comes with an integrated and highly configurable
ticketing system that helps organizing your analysis workflow and – if
required – interfaces to your existing ticketing system through a
configurable connector. If ASGARD's Bifrost\_2 Service is used to
collect suspicious samples, the Analysis Cockpit can submit the samples
to various Sandbox systems and include the report in the graphical
frontend.

Furthermore, Analysis Cockpit comes with a rule-based alert forwarding
and SIEM integration that makes it easy for your organization to react
quickly on new incidents. For organizations or projects where a SIEM
system is not available, Analysis Cockpit features a separate
notification section to deal with alerts and notifications you would
normally process in a SIEM system.

The following document describes requirements, the installation process
and best practices to group, classify and dispatch events for further
analysis.

